□ Dynamically typed.

In Python, we need not declare the variables. Depending on the value stored in the variable,
Python interpreter internally assumes the datatype. 

□ Portable
When a program yields same result on any computer in the world, then it is called a portable
program. Python programs will give same result since they are platform independent. 

□ Extensible
There are other flavors of Python where programs from other languages can be integrated into
Python. For example, Jython is useful to integrate Java code into Python programs and run on JVM
(Java Virtual Machine). Similarly IronPython is useful to integrate .NET programs and libraries into
Python programs and run on CLR (Common Language Runtime). 

□ Procedure and Object oriented
Python is a procedure oriented as well as object oriented programming language. In procedure
oriented programming languages (e.g. C and Pascal), the programs are built using functions and
procedures. But in object oriented languages (e.g. C++ and Java), the programs use classes and
objects.
An object is anything that exists physically in the real world. An object contains behavior. This
behavior is represented by its properties (or attributes) and actions. Properties are represented by
variables and actions are performed by methods. So, an object contains variables and methods.
A class represents common behavior of a group of objects. It also contains variables and methods.
But a class does not exist physically.
A class can be imagined as a model for creating objects. An object is an instance (physical form) of 

. Python is considered as a scripting language as it is interpreted and it is used on Internet
to support other softwares. 

 the .pyc files, PVM along with necessary Python library. In this
method, all the .pyc files, related Python library and PVM will be converted into a single
executable file (generally with .exe extension) so that the user can directly execute that file by
double clicking on it. In this way, converting the Python programs into true executables is called
frozen binaries.


----------------

GNU is a Unix-like operating system. That means it is a collection of many programs: applications, libraries, developer tools, even games. The development of ...
-------------------------

[cloudera@localhost ~]$ who
cloudera tty1         2022-05-24 23:29 (:0)
cloudera pts/1        2022-05-27 06:45 (:0.0)
[cloudera@localhost ~]$ whoami
cloudera
[cloudera@localhost ~]$ 

--------------------------

 Umask, or the user file-creation mode, is a Linux command that is used to assign the default file permission sets for newly created folders .

---------------------------
string datatype
we can do indexing,slicing.repetition,del(),find(),count(),strip(),replace(),upper()

We can do only indexing in case of bytes or bytearray datatypes. We cannot do slicing or
repetitions.


lst.append=we can append only one elememt but using lst.extend many elements.

To convert a list into tuple, we can use tuple() method.
tpl = tuple(lst)

Generally, range is used to repeat a for loop for a specified number of times.

Literals in Python
A literal is a constant value that is stored into a variable in a program. 
--------------------
lists and tuples 
If a data is needed in a program which is not supposed to be changed, then it is better to put it in 'tuples' than in 'list'.

Tuples are stored in a single block of memory. Tuples are immutable so, It doesn't require extra space to store new objects. Lists are allocated in two blocks: the fixed one with all the Python object information and a variable-sized block for the data. It is the reason creating a tuple is faster than List.


garbage collector is a mechanism to collect the dead objects.
it will relieve the space to the pvm .







